Modelling spinodal decomposition at the atomic scale --- beyond the Cahn-Hilliard model



Computational modeling of mineral unmixing and growth
An application of the Cahn–Hilliard equation


Gibbs, J.W., “On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances,” in Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, 1876, III, pp. 108–248, Oct. 1875–May 1876, and pp. 343–524, May 1877–July 1878.


- granát je v granulitové facii indexovým minerálem metamorfózy.


(1998) Lasaga. Kinetic theory in earth sciences
Kapitoly: 4. Diffsion, 5. Irreversible thermodynamics


(1998) Raabe. Computational Materials Science: The Simulation of Materials, Microstructures and Properties (380 s.)

- Kapitoly:
  - Monte Carlo Simulation and Integration
  - Ginzburg-Landau-Type Phase Field Kinetic Models
  - Cellular Automata


Thermodynamics of Microstructures


FiPy
https://github.com/usnistgov/fipy/blob/6e1e60d71f76e81b8678b60c42ce954a7d88dc3c/examples/cahnHilliard/mesh2D.py



Cahn–Hilliard

- 2006 KUHL Computational modeling of mineral unmixing and growth
- 2012 PETRISHCHEVA Exsolution by spinodal decomposition in multicomponent
mineral solutions


=== 2006 KUHL Computational modeling of mineral unmixing and growth

Jaký je rzdíl mezi unmixing or exsolution?

exso-lution textures vs microstructure

A related phenomenon to min-
eral exsolution is symplectitic growth, which yields similar
intergrowth pattern. In contrast to mineral exsolution, which
is a solid-state process in a closed system, symplectites may
involve fluids and small amounts of residual magma in an
open system [25].

Flory–Huggins thermodynamics of mix-
ing

However,theoftenrandomarrangementof
the delicate exsolution and symplectite textures (cf. Fig. 1b)
suggests that they typically grow in low-strain locations, see,
e.g.,Vernon[25].

Nevertheless,strainmaycontributedirectly
to the their formation through the effect of strain energy on
the total free energy [23], or indirectly as the textures may
become distorted and recrystallized into granular aggregates
when being subjected to strain.

governing equations of nonlinear nonlocal
diffusion of Cahn–Hilliard type which finally result in a gov-
erning fourth order diffusion equation.

Governing equations

Remark 2 (Constant vs. concentration dependent mobility)
In the simplest case, we could assume a constant mobility
which is then equivalent to the diffusivity D.
M = D.
(14)
Thermodynamic reasoning, however, suggests the choice of
M = c [ 1 − c ] D/RT ,
(15)
which, as we will see later, results in Fickian diffusion in the
case of ideal solution.

Remark 3 (Isotropic vs. anisotropic diffusion) In the case of
isotropic mineral growth, the diffusivity tensor D can be
expressed in terms of the identity tensor weighted by the
scalar valued diffusion coefficent D.
D = D I.

=== Exsolution by spinodal decomposition in multicomponent
mineral solutions
